.\" Ralphglasses manual page
.\" Format: troff/groff man page
.\" Render with: man ./ralphglasses.1
.TH RALPHGLASSES 1 "2026-03-22" "ralphglasses dev" "Ralphglasses Manual"
.
.SH NAME
ralphglasses \- command-and-control TUI for parallel LLM agent loops
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ralphglasses
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B ralphglasses mcp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B ralphglasses completion
\fISHELL\fR
.br
.B ralphglasses version
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ralphglasses
is a k9s-style terminal user interface for managing parallel LLM agent loops
(ralph loops) across multiple repositories.
It supports Claude Code, Gemini CLI, and OpenAI Codex CLI as session providers.
.PP
Ralphglasses scans a directory tree for ralph-enabled repositories
(those containing a \fB.ralph/\fR directory or a \fB.ralphrc\fR file),
then presents a live dashboard of their status.
Loops can be started, stopped, and paused without leaving the TUI.
.PP
Ralphglasses is also an MCP server (see \fBmcp\fR subcommand) exposing 126 tools
for programmatic orchestration by an LLM.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-scan\-path " DIR"
Root directory to scan for ralph-enabled repos.
Default: \fB~/hairglasses-studio\fR.
Supports tilde expansion.
.TP
.BI \-\-theme " NAME"
Color theme for the TUI.
Built-in themes: \fBk9s\fR (default), \fBdracula\fR, \fBgruvbox\fR, \fBnord\fR.
May also be a path to a YAML theme file.
.TP
.B \-\-notify
Enable desktop notifications for critical alerts
(e.g., circuit breaker opening, loop crash).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version, commit, and build date, then exit.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help text and exit.
.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS mcp
.B ralphglasses mcp
[\fB\-\-scan\-path\fR \fIDIR\fR]
.PP
Run ralphglasses as an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server over stdio.
The server exposes 126 tools for managing ralph loops and LLM sessions.
Clients connect via JSON-RPC over stdin/stdout.
.PP
The \fB\-\-scan-path\fR flag is inherited from the root command.
Alternatively, set the \fBRALPHGLASSES_SCAN_PATH\fR environment variable.
.PP
Codex-first repo-local MCP/client setup is already configured via \fB.codex/config.toml\fR and \fB.mcp.json\fR.
Other MCP clients can register the same command explicitly if needed:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
go run . mcp --scan-path ~/projects
.fi
.RE
.PP
A \fB.mcp.json\fR and \fB.codex/config.toml\fR in the repo root enable automatic local discovery
when Codex or another compatible MCP client is opened from the ralphglasses directory.
.
.SS completion
.B ralphglasses completion
\fISHELL\fR
.PP
Generate shell completion scripts.
\fISHELL\fR must be one of: \fBbash\fR, \fBzsh\fR, \fBfish\fR.
.PP
Example (bash):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
ralphglasses completion bash > /etc/bash_completion.d/ralphglasses
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example (zsh):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
ralphglasses completion zsh > "${fpath[1]}/_ralphglasses"
.fi
.RE
.
.SS version
.B ralphglasses version
.PP
Print the version string, git commit SHA, and build date, then exit.
When built from source without ldflags, reports \fBdev\fR / \fBunknown\fR.
.PP
To embed version information at build time:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
go build \\
  -ldflags "-X main.version=$(git describe --tags) \\
            -X main.commit=$(git rev-parse HEAD) \\
            -X main.buildDate=$(date -u +%Y-%m-%d)" \\
  -o ralphglasses .
.fi
.RE
.
.SH TUI KEYBINDINGS
.SS Global
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
q / Ctrl+C@Quit
?@Toggle help overlay
Esc@Go back / cancel
r@Refresh
:@Command mode
/@Filter mode
1 2 3 4@Switch tabs (Repos / Sessions / Teams / Fleet)
.TE
.SS Table Navigation
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
j / ↓@Move cursor down
k / ↑@Move cursor up
Enter@Drill into selected item
s@Cycle sort column
Space@Toggle selection
.TE
.SS Repo Actions (Repos tab and Repo Detail)
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
S@Start loop
X@Stop loop / session
P@Pause / resume loop
a@Actions menu
e@Edit .ralphrc config
w@Save .ralphrc config
d@View git diff
L@Launch LLM session
.TE
.SS Log Viewer
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
f@Toggle follow mode (tail)
G@Jump to end
g@Jump to start
Ctrl+U@Page up
Ctrl+D@Page down
.TE
.SS Session Detail
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
o@View session output
t@View session timeline
X@Stop session
.TE
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .ralphrc
Per-repository configuration file.
Shell-style \fBKEY="value"\fR format.
Keys must match \fB[A-Z_][A-Z0-9_]*\fR.
See \fBCONFIGURATION\fR below.
.TP
.I .ralph/status.json
Loop status written by the ralph loop on each iteration.
Fields: \fBtimestamp\fR, \fBloop_count\fR, \fBcalls_made_this_hour\fR,
\fBmax_calls_per_hour\fR, \fBlast_action\fR, \fBstatus\fR, \fBexit_reason\fR,
\fBnext_reset\fR, \fBmodel\fR, \fBsession_spend_usd\fR, \fBbudget_status\fR.
.TP
.I .ralph/progress.json
Task progress written by the ralph loop.
Fields: \fBspec_file\fR, \fBiteration\fR, \fBcompleted_ids\fR,
\fBlog\fR, \fBstatus\fR, \fBstarted_at\fR, \fBupdated_at\fR.
.TP
.I .ralph/.circuit_breaker_state
Circuit breaker state (JSON).
Fields: \fBstate\fR (CLOSED/HALF_OPEN/OPEN), \fBlast_change\fR,
\fBconsecutive_no_progress\fR, \fBconsecutive_same_error\fR,
\fBconsecutive_permission_denials\fR, \fBlast_progress_loop\fR,
\fBtotal_opens\fR, \fBreason\fR, \fBcurrent_loop\fR, \fBopened_at\fR.
.TP
.I .ralph/ralphglasses.pid
PID of the ralph loop process started by ralphglasses.
Created on loop start, removed on clean exit.
Used to re-adopt surviving processes after a ralphglasses restart.
.TP
.I .ralph/logs/
Directory for loop log files.
Rotated based on \fBLOG_RETENTION_DAYS\fR.
.TP
.I .ralph/improvement_journal.jsonl
Append-only JSONL improvement journal.
One entry per session, recording what worked, failed, and suggestions.
.TP
.I .ralph/PROMPT.md
System prompt for the ralph agent.
Created by \fBralphglasses_repo_scaffold\fR.
.TP
.I .ralph/fix_plan.md
Markdown task list the agent works through.
Created by \fBralphglasses_repo_scaffold\fR.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The \fB.ralphrc\fR file uses shell-style \fBKEY="value"\fR syntax.
Comments start with \fB#\fR.
.PP
Keys recognized by the ralph loop:
.TP
.B MAX_CALLS_PER_HOUR
Maximum Claude API calls per hour (default: 80).
.TP
.B CLAUDE_TIMEOUT_MINUTES
Timeout per Claude invocation in minutes (default: 20).
.TP
.B SESSION_CONTINUITY
Resume previous session ID between iterations (default: true).
.TP
.B CB_NO_PROGRESS_THRESHOLD
Open circuit after N no-progress loops (default: 4).
.TP
.B CB_SAME_ERROR_THRESHOLD
Open circuit after N identical errors (default: 5).
.TP
.B CB_PERMISSION_DENIAL_THRESHOLD
Open circuit after N permission denials (default: 2).
.TP
.B CB_COOLDOWN_MINUTES
Minutes before auto-reset attempt (default: 15).
.TP
.B CB_AUTO_RESET
Automatically attempt circuit reset after cooldown (default: true).
.PP
Keys used by \fBmarathon.sh\fR supervisor (not read by ralph itself):
\fBMARATHON_DURATION_HOURS\fR,
\fBMARATHON_CHECKPOINT_INTERVAL\fR,
\fBRALPH_SESSION_BUDGET\fR.
.PP
See \fBdocs/examples/ralphrc-full\fR for a fully commented example.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RALPHGLASSES_SCAN_PATH
Default scan path, overrides the compiled-in default.
Overridden by \fB\-\-scan\-path\fR flag.
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
API key for Claude Code.
Omit if using Claude Code OAuth (\fBclaude login\fR).
Setting this when OAuth is active causes auth conflicts.
.TP
.B GOOGLE_API_KEY
API key for Gemini CLI.
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
API key for OpenAI Codex CLI.
.TP
.B CLAUDECODE
Set by Claude Code to prevent nested sessions.
Unset before launching headless claude sessions from scripts.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Start the TUI
.nf
ralphglasses --scan-path ~/projects
.fi
.SS Start with a custom theme
.nf
ralphglasses --scan-path ~/projects --theme dracula
.fi
.SS Run as MCP server with custom scan path
.nf
ralphglasses mcp --scan-path ~/projects
.fi
.SS Run MCP server with explicit scan path
.nf
RALPHGLASSES_SCAN_PATH=~/projects go run /path/to/ralphglasses mcp
.fi
.SS Generate bash completions
.nf
ralphglasses completion bash > /etc/bash_completion.d/ralphglasses
.fi
.SS Scaffold a new repo for ralph
.nf
# Via MCP (for Codex, Claude Code, or another MCP client):
# ralphglasses_repo_scaffold {"repo_path": "/path/to/repo"}
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude (1),
.BR gemini (1),
.BR codex (1),
.BR ralph (1),
.BR marathon.sh (1)
.PP
Project documentation:
.RS 4
CLAUDE.md \(em Architecture, provider setup, key patterns
.br
ROADMAP.md \(em Full implementation plan
.br
CONTRIBUTING.md \(em Development setup and contribution guide
.br
docs/getting-started.md \(em Tutorial for new users
.br
docs/examples/ \(em Example configuration files
.RE
.PP
Upstream references:
.RS 4
Claude Code: https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/overview
.br
Gemini CLI: https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs
.br
OpenAI Codex CLI: https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/codex
.br
MCP specification: https://modelcontextprotocol.io/
.RE
.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/hairglasses-studio/ralphglasses/issues
.
.SH AUTHORS
hairglasses-studio contributors.
